>> Maximiliano Firtman: Okay, so
I have the same issue, I think,
with all my pages.
So all my pages in routes
are missing the.js that
was because I didn't add
it on the first one.
So then you need to go add all of them.
Okay, so now we are back and
I can try to go to someplace and
see now if I doing something someplace,
and
the first thing you see is
that it's going to someplace.
So something is there, okay?
We are still missing some parts,
so actually what happened?
Actually, it went in here, and
actually, page limit was null.
It should try to go
through all the routers.
And actually, I guess page
limit should be null, I guess.
Yeah, I'm missing one part.
Yeah, I'm missing one part actually
because I wasn't watching.
What's the problem that I have right now?
I'm only injecting the current page or
the page element, if I do have a page.
If it's 404, I'm sending the page element,
but actually I should also
add that into the DOM.
Does it make sense?
So if I don't have a page,
I will create one.
I need to check that one anyway.
So I will append the page element
even into 404 because I have just
created a page element for
that particular situation.
So now, first, if I refresh I have
a problem, that 404 is from the server.
Okay, be careful with that.
So I need to go to the route and
then try to execute
this again and
now I'm seeing Page not found.
Okay, so now from the router,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Also,
I'm getting an error there,
but I can go to some place.
I can go to the route.
If I go to the route,
it's actually working.
Can you see that?
So if I'm going to the route,
it's actually working.
What if I go to one particular movie,
will it work?
I don't know.
Well, it worked and I use the same id but
what if I change the id?
It's always Men in Black 3, why is that?
Do you remember why?
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Our
MovieDetailsPage has that 14 hard coded,
where should I get the id from?
>> Speaker 2: Params.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Params,
that's the property that I injected.
So I should have a params and
it's an array,
actually, so it should get it from there.
Let's see if that works,
so I need to refresh.
On the home, this is going to
be a problem that we will solve.
So I'm in the home and now, if I'm
going to movie 24 it's Jurassic World.
Let's put this to the side like that.
So if I'm going to 240, it's an address.
These errors are coming from YouTube.
Base.js is the YouTube embed,
so forget about them.
And if I'm going to the home,
it's going to the home.
And if I'm going to any other
place is giving a Page not found.
So we are closer than before.
And by the way,
what happens if I use the back button?
So if I go back from Page not found,
okay, it goes back to the home.
Let's go back here.
It's changing the URL, but
it's not updating the UI, why?
I'm missing just one one piece.
That piece is that my router has an init
function that no one is executing.
So I need to execute this init, where?
For example, when the page loads,
that's a good place, DomContentLoaded.
So I can just say app.Router.init,
so we initialize this.
And also I don't need to inject
the homepage or the movie details anymore.
The router will do that,
the router will check
the current URL and
will render the initial page.
Okay, does it make sense?
So now, if I'm going to the home again,
refresh, I'm seeing the home page.
So that works,
if I'm going to 404, it works.
If I'm going to one particular movie,
it also works.
And now if I go back,
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It's working.
So it's going through the URLs and
updating the UI.
So that's voila, we have a router
that is accepting different
routes dynamically,
that's the clients are routing.
Not really complicated,
just sending data, receiving data.
There is one more thing to solve, links,
because right now I want to click here and
I want to go, okay to the details.
That's not working right now, we can solve
it, and also links here at the top, okay?
Even if we don't have all the options yet,
I want to click Movies and
I want to go to the home, for example.
Right now it's working, but
what's happening is that, I mean,
if you look at what happened in here,
it's flashing.
That means that it's refreshing the page.
So right now, these links
are refreshing the page, okay, why?
Well, if you look at our index html,
they are just links.
So they're just refreshing the page.
But something that I can do and
that's a missing step,
mostly if you are pasting
the router from the documentation.
In the router I need,
I also have other part that
will enhance current
links in the document.
So this is the deal,
I'm going to get from the document.
Let's use querySelectorAll,
I will take all
the links with a.navlink class,
all of them, and
for each of those links,
I'm going to execute something.
I'm going to add a.EventListener for
the click event, so when you click on
those links, I want to do something
>> Maximiliano Firtman: First,
I want to preventDefault.
So if I do that,
I'm going through all the links,
at least all the links with that class.
In case I have other links that
are going to external sources, and
I'm preventing defaults.
So which means, if I click here,
nothing happens.
So now it's not refreshing
the page because I'm preventing
the default action for
links that is going to the URL.
Because I'm preventing it,
I'm going to replace that with
getting the href of the current
link with getAttribute.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: By the way, there
are two ways to get the href, a.href,
a is actually the current link
that I'm looping and get article.
Does anyone know the difference?
>> Speaker 2: If it doesn't exist, it
doesn't return anything, or becomes nil.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: In this case, both
will give me the same value get attribute
is actually getting the attribute
that is in the HTML.
And this one will get the current
value in JavaScript, and you say, but
isn't just the same?
Well, in JavaScript, you may change
the property and not change the HTML.
So at this point this is kind of
the initial attribute in case someone
is changing that with JavaScript.
So this is the property
with society previews.
It's something that you wanna
get deeper when you embody
that JavaScript and
when I have the href, I wanna go there.
And we have a router for that, right?
Actually, we are the router.
So we are going to go to that link.
So I'm replacing those links and
saying, hey, browser,
I will take care of those links.
Don't go, I will do that.
So that means that now, for example,
for now go into a movie and I click here.
It goes to the home without
refreshing the page.
So it enhances this.
If I'm going to Favorites, it's Page
not found because I don't have it yet.
The same on Watchlist and My Account.
So these links are actually working now,
okay?
The only one that is not
working is clicking here, but
that's something that I
need to change manually.
It's not really a big deal.
Do you remember where this HTML
is actually currently located?
>> Speaker 2: It's a movie item element.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: It's
a movie item element that is
actually this part, is this link.
So in this case,
there are many ways to solve the problem.
I can use onclick or href, it's up to you.
So if I use onclick, I can say here, for
example, that they wanna
go to app.Router.go.
And I wanna go to one
url that I can set here.
Let's say url, like that.
So I can create the url variable, and
I wanna go to "/movies/" and
the id, this.movie.id.
The id of the current movie, okay?
I think it's okay, I guess.
So let's see, I'm going to Guardians
of the Galaxy and nothing happens.
So something is wrong, and
by the way, what's happening?
It seems like there is an error in
JavaScript that probably is gonna be
difficult to see, I guess.
Let's see, if I go to Console.
If I click here, it's actually,
it's actually going to the home, so
I think that the router is working.
So this code is working and the url,
let's see, we can actually inspect this.
And we can actually see,
no, it's still the old one.
So let me refresh.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Now,
I'm seeing the right one.
So it's up router.go and
be careful with quotes.
So I'm using double quotes on the outside
and single quotes on the inside.
Okay, you have to deal with this every
time you are mixing JavaScript and HTML.
So, if I now go there actually working.
Yeah, I didn't refresh,
I think that was a problem.
So I can go to the home and I can click
on any movie and just go in there.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: So
it's working, right?
I can go to a home and get here and
if I'm going to a page that is not ready,
I'm getting a 404.
>> Speaker 2: I can see
why frameworks exist.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Yeah,
I mean, writing it from scratch.
It takes some time.
The good part is that when you have it,
you already have a micro library for
a router.
So now you can use that router.
There are more things you can improve and
you can use that router on
every new Vanilla project.
And that's your micro library
specifically for routing.
And by the way,
when you're doing Vanilla JavaScript,
it's okay to use micro libraries.
So libraries are specifically for
one particular purpose,
because you don't wanna
reinvent the wheel.
And it's fine, it's perfectly fine to use
that particular, it's helping your issue.
You try to find one that is small,
that it's not forcing you to use any
specific pattern in the rest of your app.
Set for that, and stuff works,
and that's all, okay?
>> Speaker 3: Very rewarding feeling
diving into the basics like this.
>> Maximiliano Firtman: Cool, yeah,
actually a lot of people at the beginning,
when they started learning things
like that, you say, come on,
I don't wanna do this.
I mean, it's better to use React or
start this with Angular.
And I could argue also that probably the
first 20% of the time at the beginning,
you feel like I don't wanna do that.
But at some point,
I think that you get that feeling that,
now I understand, okay,
what's going on with something?
Now you decide next time if you want
to use a library for that or not.
If you feel, yeah, a library will be good
enough or maybe this is good enough.
It's just another tool for
your toolbox, okay?
And then on every case, if you don't
know the tool, you will never use it.
It's kind of a kind of a monster, okay?
That you don't know what that is.
And I know that a lot of new
generations of web developers,
they think that this is
what we're doing here.
Sounds like assembler, okay?
Writing, talking to the DOM.
I think that sounds like something really,
really low level.
I mean, it's a lower level library but
it's not really so low level, okay?
One more rewarding thing
is that when we click here,
okay, it works but maybe we can make
a transition between the pages, okay?
And it sounds scary, okay?
I need to fade in, how do you do that?